# Multiple_GPU_4opt_5opt_6opt_for_TravelingSalesmanProblem
The 2-opt, 3-opt, 4-opt, 5-opt, 6-opt heuristics are classical k-opt local search algorithms for traveling salesman problems (TSP) in combination optimization area. However, these algorithms exist two drawbacks, firstly their serial implementations have polynomial time complexity and are time-consuming to approach large scale TSP instances; secondly k must be specified in advance. To solve the first drawback, some researchers turn to GPU and find different GPU parallel 2-opt and 3-opt algorithms. As to the second drawback, some researchers proposed variable λ-opt algorithms. Problem is that we do not find previous research on computation acceleration of 4-opt 5-opt 6-opt and variable λ-opt using GPU cards. Here in this paper, we propose multiple GPUs' parallel 4-opt 5-opt 6-opt and variable λ-opt (λ=2,3,4,5,6) algorithms. Their parallel computation procedure follows characteristic of ``data parallel" and can be easily deployed on any quantity of GPUs. Further more, we propose a serial algorithm that executes massive variable λ-opt moves on the same TSP tour in case of searching 2-/3-/4-/5-/6-opt simultaneously. We test these pure k-opt algorithms on national TSP instances without considering any nearest neighborhood information. Experimental tests on the mu1979.tsp instance show that when only comparing running time of one iteration of 4-opt on a 3-optimal TSP tour, the GPU parallel 4-opt runs more than 2880 times faster than serial pure 4-opt algorithm (53s vs >48h). Leading to the results that when the goal is to achieve 4-optimal TSP tour, iterative GPU parallel fixed 4-opt method runs more than 24 times faster than iterative serial fixed 4-opt (2.405h vs >56.742h), iterative GPU parallel increasing variable λ-optimal (λ=2,3,4) mothod runs more than 58 times faster than its serial version (0.8312h vs >48h).  And given enough quantity of GPU cards, the proposed GPU parallel 5-opt and 6-opt algorithms can achieve 5-/6-optimal TSP tour in acceptable time.
